gh-98188: Fix EmailMessage.get_payload to decode data (#127547)
python/cpython: Misc/NEWS.d/next/Library/2024-12-03-14-45-16.gh-issue-98188.GX9i2b.rst

Fix an issue in :meth:`email.message.Message.get_payload` where data

> cannot be decoded if there is a trailing whitespace and/or texts following the mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fix an issue in :meth:`email.message.Message.get_payload` where data
cannot be decoded if the Content Transfer Encoding mechanism contains
trailing whitespaces or additional junk text. Patch by Hui Liu.
```

A question: when we add additional junk text after the mechanism, is this the reason why there would be an additional trailing whitespace? more precisely, is "base64 blabla" recognized as "base64" (no trailing whitespace) or "base64 " (trailing whitespace) and then your patch (removing trailing whitespace) would make it equivalent to "base64"?

Currently, AFAIK, "base64 blabla" does not work and the payload wouldn't be decoded from base64. So, I instead suggest to reject "blabla" in a stricter manner for some policies (maybe not the default one). But this can be addressed in a follow-up PR.

Author: The parser recognized both "base64 " and "base64 balba" as "base64" but in the `get_payload` method, it used the original value from the header with spaces and junk text. In this patch, instead of reading the original header value, it read the parsed value.

Before making this PR, I was also thinking about "base64 blabla" (it's not a valid value based on the RFC), but the current parser can parse "base64 blabla" correctly with defects under default policy. I haven't tested it under strict policy yet, but I agree it should be rejected under strict policy.

Reviewer 2: The email package has since its inception followed "Postel's Rule", which is "be generous in what you accept, be rigorous in what you produce."  Now, this can sometimes have security implications, and we've fixed a few bugs of that sort.  In this case, though, I don't see how ignoring the extra junk could be a security risk, so I think it is OK to stick with the Rule here.

I also can't think of any significant backward compatibility issues, since the effect of the fix is that bodies that in the past produced undecoded text will now produce decoded text.  An application in that situation will either be improved, or any existing workarounds I can think of would not get broken by this change.  I hope ;)

Reviewer 2: As for strict policy, in theory any header defects should result in an error, but I frankly can't remember if I ever finished wiring that up.  If I didn't that's a whole separate issue ;)
